# movielister

movielister is a movie and TV show listing web application built with Next.js, a popular React framework, and uses the Tailwind CSS library for styling and Framer Motion for animations. The application serves as a clone of The Movie DB with a unique user interface. 

The movielister web application includes the following features:

- A responsive layout that works on desktop, tablet, and mobile devices.
- A home page that displays popular movies and TV shows.
- Movie and TV show detail pages with images, trailers, and other information.
- A search page where users can search for movies and TV shows.
- A region and platform page that displays which platforms a movie or TV show is available on in a specific region.

movielister is powered by the TMDB API, which provides movie and TV show data, including images, videos, and ratings. 

## Installation

To use movielister, you need to have Node.js and npm installed on your machine. 

1. Clone the repository to your local machine by running the following command in your terminal:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/oktay/movielister.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```
   cd movielister
   ```

3. Create a `.env.local` file at the root of the project and add your TMDB API key to it:
   ```
   API_KEY=your_tmdb_api_key
   ```
   Replace `your_tmdb_api_key` with your own API key.

4. Install project dependencies:
   ```
   npm install
   ```

5. Start the development server:
   ```
   npm run dev
   ```

6. Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000` to see the running application.

That's it! You should now have a running instance of movielister on your local machine.

## Design

The design for this project was created by Pramod Poudel.

## Technologies

This project uses the following technologies:

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/): a popular React framework for building server-rendered React applications.
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/): a utility-first CSS framework for building custom designs.
- [Framer Motion](https://www.framer.com/motion/): a library for adding animation to React components.
- [TMDB API](https://www.themoviedb.org/documentation/api): a RESTful API for retrieving movie and TV show data.

## Note

When I first built this project, it used server-side rendering, which means that the web server would generate HTML pages for each request made by a user's web browser. This approach can be very efficient, as it allows the web server to do most of the heavy lifting in terms of generating the page content.

However, when I deployed the project to Vercel, I found that I was exceeding the free usage limits for server-side rendering. To avoid paying for additional resources, I had to switch to client-side rendering. With client-side rendering, the web server only sends the initial HTML file to the user's web browser, and the rest of the page content is generated by JavaScript running on the client side. This approach is less efficient than server-side rendering, but it can be more cost-effective for smaller projects or projects with lower traffic volumes.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! To contribute to the project, please follow these steps:

1. Fork the project repository to your own account.
2. Clone the forked repository to your local machine.
3. Create a new branch for your changes.
4. Make your changes and commit them to your branch.
5. Push your changes to your forked repository.
6. Submit a pull request to the original repository.

Before submitting a pull request, please make sure that your code is well-tested and follows the project's code style and guidelines.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
